We get the error dialog in place,
it's showing the standard error message for our sign-up error because for the user route here where we
create a new user here on the back-end, we actually have that Mongoose unique validator and if that
detects an error, it will automatically send back or actually reach that part here
and we then just send back the normal error response.
Well what we could do here is we could send back an error with our own error object where we do add
a message and there, we could say invalid authentication credentials.
Now that's at least a bit more helpful than the standard error message.
Now for our front-end to work correctly though, I need to remove that extra level of nesting here,
that extra error property, let's just send back a response which has this message property. With this
changed, we should already see an improvement if we save this. If we go back and we again try to create
a user for a taken e-mail address,
we see the invalid authentication credentials message here
and that's really useful now because now we got a great way of displaying our own error messages.
So let's go through the server side and ensure that we are sending correct error messages in all cases.
For logging in,
we're also catching errors and we're sending back auth failed.
Now maybe we also want to say invalid authentication credentials
here too. If we go to check auth, there we also send back a response with auth failed
if we identify that the user doesn't have a valid token. So maybe here, we want to update the message to say
you are not authenticated.
If we go to our posts routes, let's go through it from top to bottom.
We got our multer thing going on but we're not sending back errors here so we can ignore this for now.
In the post method here where we create a new post though, we're not handling error cases.
What I want to do here is I want to add a catch block after this then block and this should execute
whenever something does fail.
So here I will set a response with a status code of 500
for something went wrong on the server and add some JSON data where I can set up a message where
I say creating a post failed.
Now that's not super meaningful but it is at least something,
so now we're also catching errors here. If we move on to that update path here
or route here, there we are updating our posts and we are already sending back a response if we don't have
a technical error which would go into a catch block but if we simply don't find a post to update, then
we are sending back not authorized.
I also want to catch technical errors like if the database connection is lost or anything like that
and therefore here, I will also return a custom response with a status code of 500 where
I send back my JSON code or my JSON data and there I will set a message of couldn't update post
and that's important to understand
by the way. Catch will only be reached if something goes wrong
technically here, if we just don't find a valid post, we still go into the then block here
but we will have a result where nothing is modified.
This is why we're handling it like this here, with that else condition.
Now let's move on to getting posts, if we want to get posts here,
we are returning our posts and we're getting the count of posts and I also want to catch technical
issues here.
So here if we got an error, I want to return a response with a status code of 500
where I add my JSON object with a message of fetching posts failed.
Now we got that in place,
let me copy that catch block and also add it to that method here where we try to find a single post
here at the end, fetching posts
failed is the correct message here
and we also handle the case that we did not have a technical issue but that we just did not find a post
and there we have a post not found
message too. Now for deleting posts,
we also handled the case that we just were not authorized or anything like that and I will
also my technical error handler here with that catch block.
Now with that, I updated all the error messages
and if we save that, we can actually have a look at that on the front-end.
For that let's go to the post list component and let's temporarily remove that check which hides the
edit and delete buttons.
If we remove that, we will be able to trigger these requests without being authorized.
So if we go back and please have a look,
I'm not logged in,
I see these buttons again. If I click delete
now, I get you are not authenticated.
Now we also see that the spinner doesn't go away in that case and it should go away of course and
the problem we have is that in the post list component where we are setting isLoading to true whenever
we start loading, when we trigger onDelete,
well we never set it back to false if we fail. Now here it's super easy to do so though, we are subscribing
to the response and we can simply add a second method to subscribe here to also be informed about
errors and then set isLoading back to false.
By adding this here in the onDelete method in the post list component, we should be able to click delete,
see the error message and then still interact with our app.
Now if I click edit, we actually are redirected to the login page anyways because I still have that
mechanism in place.
If I now do login but with a user who didn't create that post, I now also see the buttons because we
removed that check,
now I also get not authorized and if I try to edit this, well then I get it loaded here
but if I try to update this, I also get not authorized and keep in mind, these are cases which are
a bit fishy anyways because we are reaching parts of the app where we shouldn't be able to get in a legit
way. So we don't need to provide the best user experience here but having some fallback is certainly
not a bad idea.
Now I will go back to my post list component template and re-add this ngIf check to my buttons here
so that we don't see them if we shouldn't see them
but it was nice seeing our error handler in action here.